TITLE 100

mobile space
bounce
fly by night
fly by day
walk by day

space device


QUICK OVERVIEW 800


philosophy

The mobile device has become the ubiquitous device for communicating, both sending and receiving audio, video, text, images and any other form of digital communication. With this virtual space ever growing and ever increasing participants globally, this show is an experimentation and exploration of this space as a performance space for creative expression. The key interest being what role does this device have within the arts space, as an active agent using sensor data, location services and connection to the internet. The key question being: what new forms of interactive participatory art can be made with this device? This show injects itself into this new digital communication frontier, to play and explore while questioning what this space is and what it could be in the future.


mobile space

Taking the mobile device as a both a receiver and communicator of data and digital media, 'mobile space' explores the relationship between the mobile device and the space it exists in. Using sensor and tracking data, machine learning and gestural analysis, the lines blur between the real and virtual space created. Augmenting reality and generating virtual worlds while moving through a space, the audience experience both a virtual and real world experience, blurring the lines between the two worlds. 




space device
The mobile device has become the ubiquitous device for communicating, both sending and receiving audio, video, text, images and any other form of digital communication. With this mode of communicating ever growing and with ever increasing participants globally, this project is an exploration of this space as a performance space for creative expression. The key question being: what new forms of interactive participatory art can be made with this device? Working both across age and cultural boundaries, this project seeks to find a truly global audience. This project injects itself into this new global digital communication frontier, to play and explore while questioning what this space is and what it could be in the future.













ARTISTIC PRACTICE 2400


With over twenty years experience in both development and designing all things with interactive sound, I have worked as a freelancer across the globe, engineering, producing, designing, programming, performing with sound and software. Working within museums, galleries, performance spaces, public spaces and the web along with prodigious creative companies and individual artists to create, design, generate, support and learn whilst making art. 

Over the last 10 years I have toured to China on several projects and hope to continue generating and creating further relationships and artistic outcomes both with and for Chinese audiences. Previous performances have included Australian Theatre Festival in Beijing (2008), World Expo (2010) Shanghai and Freespace Festival (2014) Hong Kong.

Recent Key Achievements

Camo Disco / C1 Train / Tritone & Singing Interactive Boards (2016) commissioned by Melbourne Museum, collaborating with in-house staff over 12 months to provide music/audio elements for a number of exhibitions. Developing prototypes of interactive spaces, composition, arranging and recording, surround sound mixes, visual directing and evaluation sessions with children and their adults.

Voicelab (2014 - 2017) a unique installation module for collecting the thoughts and opinions of children. Working for Polyglot as creative software developer, with a small creative team, designed an interactive space for a single child to enter a dome alone, encouraging reflective thought and the articulation of opinions and feelings. The discussion can be completely tailored to explore children’s world views, curriculum themes, or to gather feedback on their experiences of the arts, at school or in their community. This project is on-going, working with organisations for evaluation (Anglicare, University of Melbourne, Yarra City Council), with further developments planned.

Fly By Night (2015 - 2017) a site-specific, immersive experience, created for the foyer spaces of Arts Centre Melbourne's Hamer Hall. Collaborating with Melinda Hetzel & Co., the show weaved dance, physical theatre, sound design and video art, using an ipod to deliver a surprising, promenade-style, self-guided video-tour via a purpose-built mobile app. Premiered as part of Nite Art and Open House Melbourne 23-26 July 2015, presented by Arts Centre Melbourne and supported by the City of Melbourne.








PROJECT ACTIVITY 3600




Stage 1 (April - October 2017)

Development of all things : Developing and prototyping the technology required for further stages. This includes 
	
	- initial exploration of current and near-future technologies (completed)
	- exploring sensors and gestures generated by a mobile device (completed)
	- communication protocols to work reliably with ubiquitous network scenarios (completed)  
	- creating an interactive music machine learning and generating engine is being designed for exploration and fast prototyping of ideas (current) 
	- real-time video generation using shape and colour (soon)
	- data analysis and machine learning tools used to take all the sensor data and turn it into meaningful paradigms 
	- initial partnership building with arts organisation and presenters for development support 

This process is currently self-funded whilst looking for development partners. The outcome of this stage is to be armed with a number of new tools and processes to develop small to large scale interactive works using mobile devices. 


Stage 2 (October 2017 - March 2018)

Prototyping and Play : Working with key organisations and presentation partners, a series of workshop and prototyping sessions are planned. Working both with other artistic practitioners, schools and arts organisations focusing on children and play, the tools developed in Stage 1 will be used to first test the software, then to explore the potential and development of ideas in a fast and intuitive process. As part of this process, the work itself would be moulded by all participants of the process, letting the community become part of the work. The focus on working with children developing this work is crucial as both navigators and protagonists of this exploration into this new form of creative expression. As experienced with many previous developments, children have a unique capacity to be honest and playful in all their interactions, providing a full range of outcomes. Visual and audio components will be designed and produced by the participants. The workshops themselves would also be documented for further analysis, with the recording of sessions built into the software. Ideas to explore : movement through space, sound and motion, visual and motion, motion gesture recognition, multiple device communication, real-time interaction behaviour and response. With a few focused test sessions, further workshops could also be in the form of presented works, using the interactions and play as part of the work itself.  

Stage 3 (March 2018 - )

Presentation : With both the tools refined and generated content and contexts, the last stage is to further refine the work for presentation whilst looking for further presentation formats, touring and community engagements. Each time the show is presented, it can further develop, again taking on the participants ideas and explorations of the work. A number of key processes develop in Stage 2 would be brought into the work, forming a structure in which the work could be presented into different interactive performance spaces. Further exploration of presenting this work as a large scale performance base mobile app along with further ideas developing for future projects using similar technologies. The work and tools developed could also collaborate with other interactive artists, exploring other potential uses for the tools developed whilst improving and promoting the work and ideas explored.








